# Tutorial: Setting up a Minecraft Server Infrastructure on AWS using Terraform

## Requirements

Before getting started, ensure that you have the following tools installed:

1. **Terraform**: Terraform is used to provision and manage the infrastructure. Install Terraform by following the instructions in the official documentation: [Install Terraform](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli).
2. **AWS CLI**: The AWS Command Line Interface (CLI) is used to interact with AWS services. Install the AWS CLI by following the instructions in the official documentation: [Install AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-quickstart.html).

## Credentials and Configuration

To configure AWS credentials for Terraform to work, follow these steps:

1. Create the file `~/.aws/credentials`.
2. Open the file and copy your AWS credentials into it. Save the file.

For more information on where to find your AWS credentials, refer to the [AWS CLI Configuration documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-configure.html).

## Setting Up User Variables

Depending on your operating system, follow the appropriate instructions to set up user variables.

### Linux

In a terminal, run the following commands, replacing `<value>` with your actual AWS access key ID and secret access key:

export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<value><br>
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<value>

### Windows

In a command prompt, run the following commands, replacing `<value>` with your actual AWS access key ID and secret access key:

aws configure set aws_access_key_id "<value>"<br>
aws configure set aws_secret_access_key "<value>"

## Provisioning the Infrastructure with Terraform

Once you have installed Terraform and configured the AWS CLI, follow these steps to provision the infrastructure:
To access the complete code and resources for this tutorial, you can find them in the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/Randy-Osborn/OSU-cs312-sp23-FinalProject).


1. Open a terminal or command prompt.
2. Change the directory to where your Terraform configuration files are located.
3. Run `terraform init` to initialize the Terraform configuration.
4. Run `terraform fmt` to format the Terraform configuration files.
5. Run `terraform validate` to validate the Terraform configuration syntax and settings.
6. Run `terraform apply` to create the infrastructure resources. Review the plan generated by Terraform and confirm by entering `yes` when prompted.

## Destroying the Infrastructure

When you are finished with the server and want to remove the infrastructure resources, follow these steps:

1. Open a terminal or command prompt.
2. Change the directory to where your Terraform configuration files are located.
3. Run `terraform destroy` to destroy the infrastructure resources. Review the plan generated by Terraform and confirm by entering `yes` when prompted.

Remember to exercise caution when running the `terraform destroy` command, as it will permanently delete the resources associated with your Minecraft server.

Congratulations! You have successfully set up a Minecraft server infrastructure on AWS using Terraform. You can now proceed to connect to the Minecraft server and start playing.


## Resources

Here are the resources that were used to write the code in this project:

- [Terraform Documentation](https://www.terraform.io/docs/) - Official documentation for Terraform.
- [AWS CLI User Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure.html) - User guide for the AWS Command Line Interface (CLI).
- [AWS Documentation](https://aws.amazon.com/documentation/) - Official documentation for various AWS services and features.
- [Terraform Minecraft GitHub Repository](https://github.com/HarryNash/terraform-minecraft) - GitHub repository with code and resources for setting up a Minecraft server infrastructure using Terraform.
- [ChatGPT Repository](https://github.com/openai/chatgpt) - GitHub repository for ChatGPT, a large language model for generating human-like text responses.

Feel free to explore these resources for more in-depth information and guidance on working with Terraform, AWS CLI, AWS services, as well as the code used in the Terraform Minecraft project and the ChatGPT repository.
